---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Group Projects and Tom Callaway"
---
## Group Project Formation
This week, we got our group project assignments and had a chance to meet with our group members. I am in a group with Celina and Hyunjun- two people that I had the chance to work with previously. We all had similar availabilities so that made it convenient when we had to select a weekly meeting time. To make things simple, we just chose a time after class when we would already be together. 

We decided to pick Appsmith as the open source project we would be working to contribute to. Appsmith was the project Hyunjun decided to do his evaluation on and we decided it seemed beginner friendly as there were many open issues and good communication. They were active and had a separate label for 'good first issues'. None of us were really familiar with Appsmith but their instructions seem clear enough to teach someone how to get started. They also seem to code mostly in typescript which none of us have used before, but some of us had experience in javascript so it seemed like we would be able to learn it fairly quickly. 

## Tom Callaway
Tom Callaway offered a good introduction on how large companies are using open source companies. What stuck out to me was that there was a lot of ambiguity surrounding his job title as an open source evangelist. The people hiring him did not know how to label what he did and he also agreed that his title might bring some confusion. He spoke about how he started at Red Hat until it was bought out by IBM. It's interesting to see how large companies are recognizing the benefits of open source projects and how it allows for there to be quick progress. However, there are always concerns when a large company acquires a company like Red Hat and whether it will stay open source. 

Tom also offered good advice to beginners. He cautioned us to not "write clever" but to really understand a project's guidelines and purpose before contributing. It is important to follow their style and what they ask. Our contributions may take a while before they are accepted or they may even be rejected. We have to take the criticism and take their advice on how we can better our contributions. 