---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project Evaluation"
---

## Project Evaluation
I evaluated Blender, a software for creating animations, visual effects, and more. I was surprised to see they didn't use github to share code, but had their own website and interface that was slightly different. They had slightly different terminology for a few terms. For example, instead of submitting pull requests, contributors could submit a "patch" to admin developers to be reviewed. This was a little confusing at first, but they have a comprehensive guide for everything a contributor needs to get started. 

One good thing about Blender was that it seemed very beginner friendly. They had a section dedicated for good first issues that first-time contributors could tackle. The chat and forum also seemed very welcoming and friendly as they answered all question and no question seemed too simple. This could be a project that beginners contribute to if they take some time to familiarize themselves with the project and the code.

There aren't many bad things about Blender; moreso minor inconveniences. They don't use Githubso it can take some time to get used to their website and it may be a little difficult to navigate at first. It may also be difficult to contribute to Blender if you weren't a prior user who understands their features and functionalities. 

Overall, Blender is a good project with a welcoming community and could be a potential open source projects for amateur contributors looking to learn. 

## Video Reflections
Farming for the Future showed me a different side of oepn source. Farming is traditionally thought of as intensive labor on the field, and spending your day maintaining crops. However, as technology advances, it only makes sense that farming advances with it. MARSFarm took the uncertainty out of farming and ensured that the plants would have a stable environment to thrive in. It peaks the interest of younger generations and allows for people from all over the world to contribute to their project. It was amazing to see how open source can expand into this tangible software. 
