---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Reflecting on Open Source Effects and Methods"
---

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar
I found The Cathedral and the Bazaar surprisingly easy to read as the narrator seemed to have a very personal voice. He was telling a story about his experiences in open source development and there was a lot of helpful tips and quotes he included. He explains the two models of development styles: the cathedral and the bazaar. The cathedral style is widely popularized in the commercial world where code is released in full with each update and infrequently. The bazaar style is releasing code and updates frequently so developers can test and work on it continuously while recieving feedback. It can be difficult to adapt to a bazaar style after being used to the cathedral method, but it makes me wonder why more projects don't adapt the bazaar method even after seeing how successful Linux was. 

Two quotes that really stuck with me were "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)" and "Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow." It can be difficult to start a project completely from scratch without any outside help. There is already so much code written that the task you want done has probably been written by someone. It is just a matter of understanding that code and knowing how to modify it for your own project. I have also been a victim of my own stubborness in the past where I have not wanted to start over just because of the time and effort I already put into an existing project. There comes a point where you know it will probably be better in the long run to start over and redo it in a more efficient manner, but it can be hard to forget the work you have already done. 

## Open Source in Global Affairs
The advantages of open source as opposed to closed source is the distribution of knowledge and getting people from around the world to collectively contribute. It should ultimately stay open to all but it becomes a moral issue once that software is being with malicious intents. I think even if there is a chance of a software being used for more harmful purposes, it should still remain open. People can have differing moral values and something may not be percieved as harmful by everyone. If the creator was given the power to decide who got to use it and who didn't, the software wouldn't truly be open source anymore. Also, if it was being used for something truly malicious, I believe there would be enough developers willing to help shut it down. 

## Personal Open Source Projects 
I chose Precious Plastic and Bootstrap to evaluate. I was always interested in promoting environmentalism and learning new ways to be more sustainable and Precious Plastic seemed like a fitting project to evaluate. It seemed very welcoming and they really emphasized how they wanted to remain open source and that knowledge should be free. They are committed to improving the planet and helping people find communities to learn about how they can contribute. 

Bootstrap is a tool I have been using for websites. I am interested in web development and the project is written in a language that I am comfortable using. They are very active and seem to have comprehensive guides on how to get started. They did not have any labels for beginners but the issues did not seem to difficult to get started on. The most challenging thing may be getting a pull request because they are so active and recieve so many requests. 

