---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Continuing Group Work"
---

## Presentations
The presentations gave us a nice sense of where other groups were at. It was comforting to hear that the other groups faced the same struggles as us, whether it be setting up their development environment or trying to actually get a pull request out. Most of us are working on different projects, but we are all working towards the same goal so I saw many smilarities in our experience. I was surprised to see that some of the groups joined in on meetings with the maintainers. I was also surprised to see how welcoming some of the maintainers were. Open Library's maintainers even put aside a task just to delegate work for the student developers. After seeing the hostile comment made on the freeCodeCamp repository in the begininning of the semester, I expected some less welcoming responses, but it seems like all the groups are in a friendly environment. 

## Continued Group Work
This week, our group got our first pull request merged. When I submitted the pull request, I was almost expecting failure because some of the tests weren't passing and I wasn't sure if I fixed it the way they wanted it to be fixed. However, it seemed that previous pull requests were facing the same test failures and I did fix the issue using code from another file of theirs. As we get to work more with Open Army, the developers seem more and more welcoming. They were grateful for the contribution and wanted to know how I heard about the project. Also, as we had submitted our first pull request, we had also claimed more issues to fix- some design bugs they were facing on the mobile site. We informed the main developer that we planned to work on it and he was very receptive, even asking if we needed a design before fixing the bugs. Overall, this has been a really pleasant project to work on because the main developers are so active and answer our questions so quickly.