---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Data"
---
## Christopher Snider
Christopher's story about his life with diabetes was inspiring to hear about. It was obviously not news he was happy to hear about, as diabetes had impacted his daily life, and he had to always be wary of his blood sugar levels. However, he has since committed to helping others with diabetes and was able to meet his wife because of it. He found an online community of people who shared his struggles and felt like he wasn't alone. His full time job is now with Tidepool and he works to help others with diabetes in making their data more accessible. 

When I first heard about Tidepool, I was shocked to see that there was a need for a separate software like this and that patients did not have access to their data at all times. I was also surprised to see that something like a healthcare software could be made open source. Nevertheless, it was interesting to see the business model behind this project with such a large team. They will have a base model that will be made available to everyone and then some additional features that can be obtained through purchases. It was nice to see a company be so open and genuine about their goals. Tidepool really reflected the nature behind open source- they were transparent and emphasized community values. 

Christopher was not a pogrammer, but a Community and Clinic Success Manager. There are many moving parts to open source softwares and as it grows larger, there are needs for other managing positions that don't even require coding. This just shows that you don't need to have any programming experience to contribute. 

## Open Source in Communities
Christopher's talk gave a lot of insight to the effects open source projects have on various communities. Various developers and non-programmers come together from all over the world and donate their time and work to improve a project that they believe in. 

Open source has played a large role in encouraging the younger generation to become interested in topics that they wouldn't have been introducted to otherwise. The current generation of farmers are about to retire and the Food Computer project are introducting younger kids to a non traditional method of farming that they are excited to leran about. These projects are introducing new topics that schools don't teach and are showing kids the various types of occupations available to them.

