---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Industry Open Source Technologies"
---

## Open Source in Industries
Large businesses are starting to see the benefits of using open scource. They can move a project along much more quickly and get a lot of manpower from the community. It was interesting to see the speakers from Lessons Learned from Open Source in Business talk about the shift of open source culture from ten years ago. They can seek help from people from all over the world with different skills to solve a problem one of their employees might have a harder time with. They have control over what contributions they accept so there is no risk of ruining the project. It also allows them to see what a particular person is capable of, if they were interestered in recruiting them. It can be better to judge a candidate on how they can contribute to the actual project the company is working on, rather than an arbitrary coding interview. 

## Group Progress
This week, our group made considerable progress. We were stuck on the first issue we claimed because it took some time to familiarize ourselves with the code and understand their structure. However, after an uneventful group meeting, I went home and decided to play around with the code. I wanted to fix the issue because I did not want to spend too much time on it. After understanding their code and figuring out where the problem was, I was able to reuse some of their code to fix the issue. We spent Thursday's class figuring out the tests we should check before submitting a pull request and seeing how we should do it. We also started looking into other issues we could claim. 