---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Guest Speaker and Presentations"
---
## Guest Speaker
Riju Khatri was our guest speaker this week, and she was slight different from all the other guest speaker. She is also a student at NYU, pursuing her master's degree. It felt easier to relate to her than the other guest speakers, because she was just contributing to projects that interested her rather than working for an open source company or the founder of some large project. When asked about why she contributed to open source, she answered that it was something she was able to do to volunteer where she was able to choose what she wanted to do. At Blackrock, she was always assigned a task whether or not she liked it, but with open source she had the freedom to contribute to something larger. She talked about the happiness and satisfaction she felt whenever she got a pull request accepted and I was able to relate to that when we first got our pull request merged. 

## Presentations
The presentations this week set the bar high. I was surprised to see how immersed they were in the communities, to the point where they would have regular meetings. They were very active and the maintainers all seemed down to earth and welcome to any newcomers. We got to see groups from large and small communities and it was interesting to see the difference in the processes. With the smaller communities like CAGOV, they got quick responses and more interaction. With the bigger projects like Oppia, they have longer wait times and have less of a chance to interact with other contributors. 