---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

<h2>What do I think when I hear "open source"? </h2>
<p>When I hear the term "open source", I think about collaboration and shared projects with people you know or complete strangers. I think about softwares that are made available for everyone to use. Prior to the first day of class, I only associated it to coding projects, but I see now that there are plenty of websites that have nothing to do with coding where everyone can contribute to. An advantage of open source projects is that it can be higher quality as anyone can contribute their ideas and work together faster to implement or fix something. 
</p>

<h2>What are some potential problems with open soruce? </h2>
<p>Some potential problems with open source are security issues. Open source softwares are more at risk of security breaches. Another problem is the organization and complexity of it. With many contributors, it can be difficult to integrate all of the work while keeping it functional. </p>

<h2>Open Source Projects that Have Influenced me</h2>

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
I am still familiarizing myself with Next.js but I'm finding it to have many tools and features for building a great web application. I am also using it to build my portfolio website. 

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page)
It may not be the most reliable source for information, but it is always a good starting point for research and it has never failed me so far. 

[Musescore](https://github.com/musescore/MuseScore)
Musescore is a platform for writing sheet music where users can share music they created or transcriptions of piecies for different instruments. It is convenient to find sheet music of popular pieces. 

[vscode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
This is not the first editor I used, but it is the one I am currently using and the best one out of all the other editors I have tried. 