---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git Exercises and Jim Hall"
---
## Git Exercises
Prior to this week's lecture, my experience with Github and Git was limited. I have used it for past classes to clone repositories and add, commit, and push my work. The exercise in class gave me a better understanding of how powerful git can be for developers working on a project collaboratively. I got a chance to fork a repository, learn about branches, and understand the importance of tracking your progress as you work on your project. Using Git or other version control systems is essential when working on an open source project or for any software engineers. The skills I learned will be useful for the future and I only hope I can get a deeper understanding of it in the future.

## Jim Hall
We had the opportunity to attend a lecture with Jim Hall, the founder and project manager of FreeDos, to discuss his work with open source projects and his past experience. It was an enlightening experience to hear from someone who has been in the field when it was just starting as a novice just starting to learn. Hearing someone with so many years of experience with open source projects speak about his journey and advice was comforting. It made the community seem more welcoming but also warned us about the people who might not be as friendly. 

He gave us tips and notes on what a good open source project looks like that I found very helpful. Having an informative website that tells users everything they would want to know and how they can contact you is better than having an eye catching website with a lack of information. It is crucial that the community for the project is welcoming and friendly, and that people are aware of how they can contribute, whether it be donations, programming, or even helping to translate documents into different languages. 

The lecture with Jim Hall was very informative and taught me a lot about open source. There will always be bad experiences, like Jim recieving demanding emails, but it is also a chance to work with people from all over the world. 
