---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extension Project"
---

## Group Work
Although my group was only two people, we still worked well together. Having a smaller group means less people to split the work amongst, but it is easier to organize and meet. We had a difference in our experience with javascript, but it was still easy to divide up the work evenly. I took the lead in most of the coding aspects of theproject, which was not much to begin with, and the Contributing file. My partner, Hyunjun, set up the Code of Conduct, README, and the presentation. 

## What I learned
I already had some javascript knowledge prior to this class. However, I had never attempted to make a browser extension before and didn't know it was something I could do. The tutorials were very informative and helpful for learning how to set up an extension project. but they required some basic knowledge of javascript. 

I also got experience with setting up an open source project repository and working with another person. Setting up all the files taught me about all the different components in an open source project, and writing it up helped me understand how it is necessary for contributors. It was also my first time working with another person using Github. I learned how to set up a repository and add someone as a collaborator on that repository. It also taught me to pull before pushing my work. 

## Other Group's Projects
I enjoyed seeing what other group's ideas and their presentations. It was interesting to watch what everyone came up with and how much they were able to achieve. Many of the projects were focused on productivity. Study Timer implemented a timer and wanted to add an additional feature to restrict certain websites. Our group's idea was to block certain websites, so I felt our two projects could be combined. Less Ugly Brightspace did make brightspace a lot more manageable to look at and made me wonder why Brightspace doesn't have this feature, seeing as it was such a simple solution. 