---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Open Source Business Models and Group Work"
---
## Business Models
I found it interesting to see how business models were being developed around open source. These projects were created by people in the community donating their time to make something bigger that they and others can use, but it can be difficult to maintain it or continue that engagement. We see so many large and successful open source projects, but there are just as many that have become less active with their updates because of lost interest or discontinued maintenance. 

Once a project becomes large enough, it will eventually have to find the business model that works best for them. Gitlab is a good example of this. Open core worked best for them, as they kept the core of it open source but had extra features and customizations that could be paid for to obtain. They tried out different models and found the one that worked best for them. 

This week's lecture answered the question that I have had throughout the semester about how larger and more popular open source projects stay running. Although their software remains accessible to everyone, they must still have a source of income and it is clear to me now that there are different ways to profit and maintain a large project. 

## Group Work
This week we met at our designated meeting time on Tuesdays after class. We were determined to resolve our development enviornments issues for Appsmiths and start work on our assigned issue. However, after using up all of our meeting time trying to resolve the problems, we determined that it may just be better to start again with a new project. Appsmith's development enviornment setup instructions seemed concise at first, but there were many steps that went into it, meaning there were many places where errors or blockers could arise and new technologies we were not familiar with. We attempted to ask for help in the discord, but they did not respond quickly enough and we were unsure of how to ask the questions. We ended the meeting that day with the intention for all of us to research a new project and set up the development environment for it. We met again the next day, and decided to work on a community project by One Army. The development environment was much easier to set up, and we were able to claim an issue within a minute of asking. They are a smaller project, but the maintainers are extremely active and attentive. I look forward to seeing the work we can contribute to this projec. 