---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct"
---

## Go vs. Eclipse
Having a code of conduct is denfinitely benficial for any open source project. It sets guidelines for how contributors and community members hsould behave and ensures that everyone is being respectful and helpful. 
The Go Code of Conduct follows the same outline as the Contributor Covenant. However, Go has made their code of conduct much more detailed and personal. They have added a section for conflict resolution that includes people you can reach out to if there has been a violation of the code of conflict. Go has also added an About and "Gopher values" section. This creates a more welcoming community as people are not just contributors in this project but "Gophers". 
The [Eclipse Code of Conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) looks identical to the Contributor Covenant. They don't have any added sections to create a sense of community and is much more straightforward about their guidelines. This is most likely because it is a much more popular project and it has a stricter process if someone would like to contribute. 

## Sugar
Sugar Labs has a drastically different code of conduct from the Go project and the Contributor Covenant. It doesn't follow the same structure as it is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. They list out each value their contributors are expected to have and expand on each of them. It is a little more simple and straightforward, but still creates a sense of community as it gives a description of what Sugar is about and what is expected. 

## React
The [React Code of Conduct](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) is based on the Contributor Covenant. It seems to be copied almost verbatim with the only difference being in the Scope Section. It does not seem like they try to create a welcoming community like Go, and is more formal like Eclipse. 